five Palestinians have been killed by
Israeli forces in overnight raids in the
occupied West Bank the latest operation
took place near a refugee camp in the
city of taram residents say dozens of
Israeli army vehicles and bulldozers
stormed the area Charles trafford's in
taram and the occupied West Bank so
bring us up to date with what's been
happening on these
raids yes Rob this was a another long
extensive raid by the Israeli military
overnight uh local here inside the tulam
refugee camp Norah shamps Camp saying
that the raid started around 1:00 a.m.
last night um the the military the
Israeli military didn't leave until 10:
a.m. this is one of the strike sites um
we'll show you around if not the camera
just pans down here this is interesting
this is one of the strike sites from a
projectile that was launched from above
from a drone as you can see pretty low
impact in terms of the destruction on
the ground but these devices are
absolutely lethal because if now pan
round and you have a look at the wall
here you can see that this is absolutely
shredded with shrapnel and these tiny
ball
bearings um if you come around and have
a look here as well you can see where
some of these have literally P
penetrated the steel and and gone
through now there were three people
killed during this strike um according
to to locals they're saying the first
the first projectile hit um and there
were a couple of members of the Armed
resistance that were here we understand
that one was immediately killed uh and
another one was seriously injured um and
speaking to the gentleman who owns this
house he was saying that he heard a
knock on the
door which was by one of these um
injured members of the the armed
resistance you can see the blood here on
on the floor now according to the owner
of the house his son came up these
stairs
um on which there is still
blood he came up these stairs um to
answer the door and as he opened the
door there was a second strike and that
second strike killed his son now the son
is around 30 years old he has uh four
children um and as you can
see family members friends members of
the community are now waiting for the
body to be brought from the hospital so
that he can pay their last respects
before he is taken to be
buried but yeah this was one of at least
two strikes we understand using Israeli
drones now to kurum this refugee camp
has long been a center for the armed
resistance and of course the arm
resistance is considered a legitimate
form of resistance by the many thousands
of people that live here and right the
way across Palestine a resistance
against the occupying how that being
Israel but there are around about 17,000
people live in this camp and they are
facing raids like this pretty much every
day the roads not far from here it's
been completely dug up by um one of
these Israeli armored bull dozers there
are a number of businesses as well that
we've seen that were also hit we don't
have numbers of those that were arrested
but as I say this is happening on a
daily basis now what's also interesting
though is speaking to the gentleman
who's lost his son he was saying that
they made repeated calls to the
ambulance Crews to try and and save a
son who was bleeding to death 4 hours it
took for the ambulances to be let in
there are constantly complaints by
ambulance Crews by Medics that despite
them basically going through the
protocol the official protocol which is
the ambulance staff contacting the
Israeli military telling them exactly
where they need to be in a given
location in order to get into for
example a camp like this to come and
treat the wounded or pull the wounded
out they're saying that these calls now
are just being ignored by the Israeli
military they say that they are
suffering serious harassment many crews
um have their staff detained they are
often strip searched and many of them
are are targeted directly it was only
yesterday that we were engine in
following another large raid and we saw
an ambulance that had taken bullet holes
at the front of the vehicle directly
underneath where the driver sits also to
around the sides of of that ambulance so
yeah this kind of situation it just
highlights not only the kind of Terror
that that thousands of civilians are
facing during these raids on places like
this but the huge difficulties that
ambulance staff that medical crews are
facing on a daily on a nightly basis as
these raids continue Charles thanks very
much indeed Charles stford talking to us
uh from the occupied Wiest
Bank